# LIB 400M: Humanities Data Management, Winter 2024 
## Course Description
This course provides students with theoretical and practical experience in collecting,
processing, archiving, and publishing humanities data (images, video, sound, text,
maps, etc.) gathered from galleries, libraries, archives, and museums (GLAMs). With
the goal of building thematic digital collections as researchers, students will learn digital
methodologies focusing on the technical, legal, ethical, and social aspects of working
with humanities research data throughout its curation lifecycle. This includes hands-on
experience finding, assessing, organizing, and reformatting data; creating and
remediating descriptive metadata; evaluating and determining copyright and licensing;
writing a data management plan using the standards set by the National Endowment for
the Humanities, and sharing thematic research digital collections using GitHub and the
open source platform CollectionBuilder.
(Taken from syllabus)

## Repository Creators
- **Michell Martinez,** Project Manager
- **Riley Bair,** Collection Development Manager
- **Kaitlin McKay,** Object Preservation Manager
- **Amanda HellenKamp,** Metadata Manager

## Repository Website
**Track Town Eugene, OR:** History of Track Town USA 

Our digital collection thematic research topic is focused on Eugene OR transformation into Track Town USA. We feature objects from GLAM repositories; Oregon Digital and Oregon News. This collection showcases images, articles, programs and a video to tell the story of where the legacy began. We focused on key figures like athletes and coaches, architecture transformation of the field, Nike sponsorship, community trails and murals to tell the story. Explore the influence of Nike, Bill Hayward program development, iconic figures and community engagement to the sport. 

The repository's CollectionBuilder website can be visited [here](https://lib350mwinter2024.github.io/group2/).

## Data Management Plan

The Data Management Plan (DMP) outlines the method and approaches taken to curate our digital collection. This plan serves as research generated by our group. We provide an overview of data, hosted technology (Collection Builder), and a detailed explanation of our methods. We address NEHs Requirements of how data will be implemented, outlining rights and responsibilities. describing expected data types, data formats, data storage and preservation strategies. We provide an overview of metadata documentation included in the appendix. 

The project's DMP can be viewed [here](https://lib350mwinter2024.github.io/group2/dmp.html).
